---------------------------------------------------
W A R N I N G      W A R N I N G      W A R N I N G
---------------------------------------------------
The following text file was automatically generated
from a document that you really should read in HTML
format.  This text document is only a poor fallback
if you cannot read HTML, but it is NOT RECOMMENDED.

To read this document in the recommended way, point
your favorite web browser at one of these 3 places:
(1) The SPEC site http://www.spec.org/cpu2006/Docs/
(2) The docs directory from your CPU2006 DVD, e.g.:
    /dvdrom/Docs/ for Unix or E:\Docs\ for Windows.
(3) The Docs directory on the system where you have
    installed your SPEC CPU2006 tree - for example:
    /spec/Docs/ (Unix) or D:\myspec\Docs\ (Windows)
---------------------------------------------------
W A R N I N G      W A R N I N G      W A R N I N G
---------------------------------------------------

                        SPEC CPU2006 System Requirements

   Last updated: $Date: 2011-08-16 18:43:20 -0400 (Tue, 16 Aug 2011) $ by
   $Author: CloyceS $

   (To check for possible updates to this document, please see
   http://www.spec.org/cpu2006/Docs/ )

   Contents

   I. Hardware and Software Requirements

   A. System/OS

   1. About Linux Distributions

   2. SPEC does not recommend use of Windows/Unix compatibility products with
   CPU2006

   B. DVD

   C. Memory

   D. Disk Space

   E. Compiler, or precompiled binaries

   II. Portablility Notes

   III. About Resources and Mysterious Failures

   Note: links to SPEC CPU2006 documents on this web page assume that you are
   reading the page from a directory that also contains the other SPEC
   CPU2006 documents. If by some chance you are reading this web page from a
   location where the links do not work, try accessing the referenced
   documents at one of the following locations:

     * www.spec.org/cpu2006/Docs/
     * The $SPEC/Docs/ directory on a system where SPEC CPU2006 has been
       installed.
     * The Docs/directory on your SPEC CPU2006 distribution DVD.

I. Hardware and Software Requirements

   To run and install SPEC CPU2006, the following are required.

  A. System/OS:

   You will need a computer system running UNIX, Microsoft Windows, or Mac OS
   X. The benchmark suite includes a toolset. Pre-compiled versions of the
   toolset are provided that are expected to work with:

     * AIX: PowerPC systems running AIX 5L V5.3 or later
     * HP-UX: Itanium (IPF) systems running HP-UX 11iv3 or later.
     * HP-UX: PA-RISC systems running HP-UX 11iv31 or later.
     * Irix: MIPS systems running IRIX 6.5 or later
     * Linux: The SPEC tools are compatible with many contemporary (year
       2011) Linux distributions for Itanium, PowerPC, and x86, and with many
       older versions. For an exact list of the Linux tool sets, where they
       were built, and their expected compatibility, please see the table
       below.
     * MacOS X 10.3 or later on PowerPC systems
     * MacOS X 10.4 or later on Intel systems.
     * Solaris: SPARC systems running Solaris 8 or later
     * Solaris: x86 systems running Solaris 9 9/05 or later
     * Windows: Microsoft Windows XP or later on x86 or x86_64 systems

   Please ensure that you meet the minimum required version prior to
   installing SPEC CPU2006 V1.2.

   For systems not listed in above, such as earlier or later versions of the
   above systems, you may find that the tools also work, but SPEC has not
   tested them. Windows systems that are not based on NT, such as Windows 95,
   Windows 98, and Windows ME, will definitely NOT work. Please see the
   Portability Notes below.

   In addition to the above list, one unsupported toolset is provided as a
   courtesy.

     * Alpha Tru64 Unix V5.1B or later

   Caution:

     * Unsupported toolsets are provided as a courtesy, as a service to users
       who may have the listed platform(s).
     * Unsupported toolsets have been tested much less extensively than other
       tool sets and might or might not work.
     * More importantly, some of the benchmarks themselves have not been
       ported for the environments represented by the unsupported toolsets:

          * Therefore, if you use an unsupported toolset, you will need to
            dedicate time to a porting effort.
          * Please especially notice that it is impossible to do a reportable
            run on an unsupported system until such time as SPEC approves any
            source changes and/or portability flags needed for such system.
          * For more information about obtaining SPEC approval for source
            changes, see techsupport.html.

    I.A.1. About Linux distributions

   Over time, various mechanisms have evolved on Linux, including libraries,
   32-bit/64-bit support, executable format, linking, and run-time loading.
   These mechanisms have sometimes forked with Linux distributions and then
   occasionally rejoined later. SPEC CPU2006 has been tested with a variety
   of Linux distributions, but the possibility remains that you may encounter
   incompatibilities if you are not using *exactly* the same version as was
   used when the tools were built. Therefore, the table that follows tells
   you exactly what was used.

   If you find that you are unable to install the pre-compiled SPEC CPU2006
   on Linux, and you would like to build the tools yourself, please see the
   notes in tools-build.html. SPEC may be able to provide advice for your
   build, but SPEC does not promise that you will succeed. Please see the
   limitations described in techsuport.html.

      Toolset name          Expected compatibility        Build environment
                       PowerPC-based Linux systems with  Built on Debian
   linux-debian31-ppc  GLIBC 2.3.2+                      3.1r8 with gcc 3.3.5
                                                         (Debian 1:3.3.5-13)
                       x86, IA-64, EM64T, and            Built on RedHat 7.2
   linux-redhat72-ia32 AMD64-based Linux systems with    (x86) with gcc 3.1.1
                       GLIBC 2.2.4+.
                                                         Built on RHAS 4r4
   linux-rhas4r4-ia64  IA64 systems running Red Hat      with GCC 3.4.6
                       Enterprise Linux 4 or later.      20060404 (Red Hat
                                                         3.4.6-3)
   linux-sles9-ia64    IA64 systems running SuSE         Built on SLES 9 with
                       Enterprise Linux 9 or later.      gcc 3.3.3.
                       64-bit AMD64/EM64T Linux systems
                       running SuSE Linux 10 or later,   Built on SuSE Linux
   linux-suse10-amd64  and other compatible Linux        10 with GCC v4.1.0
                       distributions, including some     (SUSE Linux)
                       versions of RedHat Enterprise
                       Linux and Oracle Linux Server.
                       IA-32 Linux systems running SuSE  Built on SuSE Linux
   linux-suse10-ia32   Linux 10 or later.                10 with GCC v4.1.0
                                                         (SUSE Linux)
                       64-bit PowerPC-based Linux        Built on SLES10.4
   linux-suse10-ppc64  systems with GLIBC 2.4+.          with gcc 4.1.2 (SUSE
                                                         10.4:4.1.2 20070115)

    I.A.2. SPEC does not recommend use of Windows/Unix compatibility products
    with CPU2006

   SPEC does not recommend installation of CPU2006 on Microsoft Windows under
   Windows/Unix compatibility environments (such as Cygwin, MinGW, MKS, SFU,
   and so forth). The tools and benchmarks have not been ported to such
   environments. Please install from an ordinary command window (formerly
   known as an MS-DOS window).

   If you have a Windows/Unix compatibility product on your Windows computer,
   SPEC recommends that you remove it from your %PATH% prior to installing or
   using SPEC CPU2006. The reason for this recommendation is that providing a
   Unix-like environment on Windows poses difficult problems. Historically
   there have been various approaches, with differing (incompatible)
   assumptions about how to mask or bridge differences between Windows and
   Unix. The SPEC CPU toolset has its own approach and its own set of
   assumptions, and there have been reports of difficult-to-diagnose errors
   when a Windows/Unix compatibility product is present on the path, as
   described in faq.html. As discussed in the faq document, if such problems
   occur, your first step should be to simplify the path, removing the
   compatibility product.

  B. DVD

   You will need a DVD drive or network access to a system that has one

  C. Memory

   Typically 1 GB of memory will be required on 32-bit systems, exclusive of
   OS/overhead; but more may be required:

     * The CPU2006 benchmarks (code + workload) have been designed to fit
       within about 1GB of physical memory, which is within the capabilities
       of systems that allow user applications to use 32 bits of virtual
       memory (i.e. 4GB of virtual address space).

     * SPEC is aware that some systems that are commonly described as
       "32-bit" may provide a smaller number of bits to user applications,
       for example if one or more bits are reserved to privileged code. SPEC
       is also aware that there are many ways to spend profligate amounts of
       virtual memory. Therefore, although 32-bit systems are within the
       design center for the CPU2006 suites, SPEC does not guarantee any
       particular memory size for the benchmarks, nor that they will
       necessarily fit on all systems that are described as 32-bit.

     * The 1GB of RAM for the benchmarks (in 32-bit mode) does not include
       space needed for the operating system and other non-SPEC tasks on the
       system under test.

     * Typically, 64-bit environments will require 2GB for some of the
       benchmarks in the suite.

     * Attempting to run the suite with insufficient memory is strongly
       discouraged, as you will end up measuring the speed of your paging
       file, not the speed of your system running compute intensive
       workloads.

     * More memory will be needed if you run multi-copy SPECrates: generally
       1GB for 32-bit, or 2GB for 64-bit, for each copy you plan to run.

   Warning: When an operating system runs out of memory, errors may occur
   that are difficult to diagnose. See the section on resources, below.

  D. Disk space

     * Typically you will need at least 8GB of disk space to install and run
       the suite. However, space needs can vary greatly depending upon your
       usage and system. The 8GB estimate is based on the following:

         1. Unpacked and installed, the suite takes approximately 1.5 to 2GB
            of disk space.
         2. When compiling your own binaries, the size of the build
            directories and resulting objects will vary depending upon your
            system, compiler, and compiler options. Estimate at least 2 to
            3GB of disk space per build. If you plan to maintain multiple
            sets of binaries, each set will need space.
         3. A single run (using binaries you have built, or using pre built
            binaries from a separate source) takes an additional 2 to 3GB of
            disk space.

            Note: If you plan to run SPECrate with multiple copies, estimate
            an additional 2 to 3GB of disk space per copy. Note that SPECrate
            must be run using a single file system, so large runs will likely
            require some form of hardware or software disk striping.

     * Minimum requirement: It is possible to run with about 5GB of disk
       space if: you are running only single-CPU metrics; you delete the
       build directories after the build is done; and you clean run
       directories between tests. See the discussion of disk space in
       runspec.html for more information about managing disk space.

  E. Compiler, or pre-compiled binaries

   Since SPEC supplies only source code for the benchmarks, you will need
   either:

    1. A set of compilers for the result(s) you intend to measure:

         1. For SPECint2006: Both C99 and C++98 compilers
         2. For SPECfp2006: All three of C99, C++98 and Fortran-95 compilers

       --or--

    2. A pre-compiled set of benchmark executables, given to you by another
       user of the same revision of SPEC CPU2006, and any run-time libraries
       that may be required for those executables.

   Please notice that you cannot generate a valid CPU2006 result unless you
   meet all of requirement E.1.a, or E.1.b, or E.1.c. For example, if you are
   attempting to build the floating point suite but lack a Fortran-95
   compiler, you will not be able to measure a SPECfp2006 result.

II. Portability Notes

   SPEC CPU2006 is a source code benchmark, and portability of that source
   code is one of the chief goals of SPEC CPU2006. SPEC has invested
   substantial effort to make the benchmarks portable across a wide variety
   of hardware architectures, operating systems, and compilers. During the
   development of SPEC CPU2006 testing was done on over 15 different hardware
   architectures and operating systems (including many variations of Unix,
   Linux, Microsoft Windows and the Mac OS).

   Despite SPEC's testing efforts, certain portability problems are likely to
   arise from time to time. For example:

     * Some platforms may not have a Fortran-95 compiler available.

     * Some older compilers may not include all the features needed to run
       the entire suite.

     * Sometimes, a new release of a compiler or operating system may
       introduce new behavior that is incompatible with one of the
       benchmarks.

   If you visit http://www.spec.org/cpu2006/ and look up results for SPEC
   CPU2006, you will find combinations of OS and compiler versions that are
   known to work. For example, if a vendor reports a SPECint2006 result on
   the SuperHero 4 using SuperHero Unix V4.0 with SuperHero C V4.0 and
   SuperHero C++ V4.0, you may take that as an assertion by the vendor that
   the listed versions of Unix, C, and C++ will successfully compile and run
   the SPEC CINT2006 suite on the listed machine.

   For systems that have not (yet) been reported by vendors, SPEC can provide
   limited technical support to resolve portability issues. See
   techsupport.html for information.

III. About Resources and Mysterious Failures

   Resource Demand: The SPEC CPU benchmarks place a significant load on your
   system. Each benchmark copy will try to consume 100% of a (perhaps
   virtual) CPU. Additional CPUs will be consumed for SPECrate mode or if
   Auto Parallel is used.

   As described above, the nominal memory footprint is just under 1 GB (in
   32-bit mode). Depending on your operating system architecture, the memory
   may be of various types, including:

     * physical memory,
     * virtual memory, and
     * swap/pagefile reservations (*);
     * process-private heap,
     * process-private stack, and
     * process-private code;
     * operating system memory of similar types when the OS performs tasks on
       behalf of the process.

   (*)You don't want to actually use your pagefile much, as that is a recipe
   for testing your disk instead of testing your CPU. Nevertheless, it is not
   uncommon for operating systems to require that pagefile space be
   "reserved", and benchmarks may fail if reservations are unavailable.

   Mysterious failures: If an OS is unable to satisfy a resource request
   while your benchmarks are running, you may encounter
   difficult-to-diagnose, hard-to-reproduce error messages. Processes may be
   killed by the OS on a (seemingly) random basis, or may fail to start. If
   the OS is feeling sufficiently stressed, error messages may be cryptic or
   even non-existent. You might, or you might not, be able to find additional
   detail about the resource shortages in system locations such as event
   logs, message logs, or console logs.

   Resource Competition: Meanwhile, contemporary systems run many tasks other
   than the benchmarks. Personal systems commonly include processes that
   support the user, which the user may not be aware of:

     * There may be virus/spyware/intrusion defenders, disk defragmenters,
       search indexers, bluetooth and network listeners, license managers,
       software updaters, and nightly backup programs.
     * There may be automated power-saving modes or screen savers that start
       when the user wanders away from the keyboard.
     * The system may be configured:

          * to download the Library of Congress once every 4 days,
          * to check for email once every 4 minutes, and
          * to update a social media newsfeed once every 4 seconds.

   All of the above may affect observed performance, and if you are unlucky,
   may cause hard-to-reproduce resource shortages that prevent you from
   completing benchmark runs. Therefore, you may want to consider reviewing
   the controls for services such as the above, and you may want to reduce
   the load from these services during the benchmark run. When you consider
   adjusting services, please observe these CAUTIONS:

     * CAUTION 1 SPEC does not endorse any particular solution to the
       resource problems discussed in this section. You need to make your own
       decision as to what services and programs are important. If you turn
       off something essential, and your system turns into a mushroom, it is
       not SPEC's fault. Use good judgment about what you choose to disable.

     * CAUTION 2 If you choose to report results in public, you must run your
       system in a manner that is documented and supported. See the run rules
       for details.

   In addition, each of these techniques may improve the probability that the
   benchmarks have a fresh set of dedicated resources:

    1. Start a new terminal window, or
    2. Log out and back in, or
    3. Reboot

   --------------------------------------------------------------------------

   Copyright 2006-2011 Standard Performance Evaluation Corporation
   All Rights Reserved


